# 2024-04 雅思口语话题

## Part 1

### Cakes

Do you like to eat cakes or other sweet foods?

Did you like to eat cakes as a child?

Can you make cakes?

Are there any traditional Chinese cakes?

Do you like to have some deserts after meals?

### Crowded place

Is the city where you live crowded?

Is there a crowded place near where you live?

Do you like crowded places?

Do most people like crowded places?

When was the last time you were in a crowded place?

### Sunglasses

Do you ofter wear sunglasses?

Do you spend a lot of money on sunglasses?

Do you give sunglasses as gifts?

Have you ever lost your sunglasses?

### Video games

Do you play video games?

Would you watch others play video games?

Do you think people spend too much time playing video games?

Do you prefer playing video games alone or with others?

### Advertisement

Is there an advertisement that made an impression on you when you were a child?

Do you see a lot of advertisement on trains or other transport?

Do you like advertisements?

What kind of advertising do you like?

### Collecting things

Why do some people like to collect things?

What thing do they collect?

Where do they collect things?

How do they collect things?

### Color

What is your favorite color?

What color car would you like to buy?

Do you think color is important when you decide which clothes to buy?

### Feeling bored

Do you often feel bored?

When would you feel bored?

What do you do when you feel bored?

Do you think childhood is boring or adulthood is boring?

### Losing things

Do you often lose things?

What can we do to avoid losing things?

Why do some people tend to lose things more often than others?

What will you do if you find something lost by others?

### Memory

Are you good at memorising things?

Have you ever forgotten something that was important?

Why do some people have good memories while others just don't?

Why do more people rely on cellphones to memorise things?

### Music

Do a lot of people like music?

What kind of music do you listen to?

Is it easy to learn music?

Do you have music lessons at school?

### Social media

When did you start using social media?

Do you think you spend too much time on social media?

Do your friends use social media?

What do people often do on social media?

### Home and Accommodation

What kind of house or apartment do you want to live in the future?

Are the transport facilities to your home very good?

Do you prefer living in a house or an apartment?

Please describe the room you live in

What part of your home do you like the most?

How long have you lived there?

### Hometown

Where is your hometown?

Is that a big city or a small place?

Please describe your home town a little.

How long have you been living there?

Do you think you will continue living there for a long time?

Do you like your hometown?

### The area you live in

Do you like the area that you live in?

Where do you like to go in that area?

Do you know any famous people in your area?

What are some changes in the area recently?

Do you know any of your neighbors?

### Work or studies

What subjects are you studying?

Do you like your subject?

Why did you choose to study that subject?

Do you think that your subject is popular in your country?

Do you have new plans for your studies in the next five years?

What are the benefits of being your age?

### Chatting

Do you like chatting with friends?

What do you usually chat about with friends?

Do you prefer to chat with a group of people or with only one friend?

Do you prefer to communicate face-to-face or via social media?

Do you argue with friends?

### Clothing

What kind of clothes do you like to wear?

Do you prefer to wear comfortable and casual clothes or smart clothes?

Do you like wearing T-shirts?

Do you spend a lot of time choosing clothes?

### Films

What films do you like?

Did you often watch films when you were a child?

Did you ever go to the cinema alone as a child?

Do you often go to the cinema with your friends?

Do you think going to the cinema is a good way to spend time with friends?

### Fishing

Is fishing popular in your country?

Do you like eating fish?

Have you ever been to a place where there are lots of fish around you?

Have you seen any movies with lots of fish?

### Geography

How do you like geography?

Do you think geography is useful?

Have you ever learned geography?

Do you want to be a geography teacher?

### Gifts

Have you ever sent handmade gifts to others?

Have you ever received a great gift?

What do you consider when choosing a gift?

Do you think you are good at choosing gift?

### Helping others

Do you usually help people around you?

How do you help people around you, such as neighbors, family and friends?

Do your parents teach you how to help others?

Did your parents help you a lot when you were young?

What have you done to help the elderly?

### Map

Do you often use maps?

Do you use paper maps?

How often do you use maps on your phone?

Do you have maps at home?

### Musical instruments

Have you ever learned to play a musical instrument?

What musical instruments do you enjoy listening to the most?

Do you think children should learn to play an instrument at school?

Do you think music education is important to children?

### Noise

Do you like to stay in a place with a lot of noise?

What kinds of noises are there in the area where you live?

Do you want to move to a quieter place?

Do you think there is too much noise in today's world?

Is making noise one of people's right?

### Robots

Are robots important?

Would robots affect people's lives?

Have you ever watched a movie about robots?

Should we let a robot drive for us for long journeys?

What can robots do for you at home?

### Running

Do you go running a lot?

Where do you usually go running?

When was the last time you went running?

What do you think of running as a sport?

### Tea and coffee

Do people like tea and coffee nowadays?

Do you prefer to use tea or coffee to serve your guests?

When was the last time you had a cup of coffee or tea?

Do you usually buy your coffee in a coffee shop?

### Transport

How do you go to work/school?

What's the most popular means of transportation in your hometown?

How far is it from your home to work/school?

Do you think people will drive more in the future?

### Travelling

Do you like travelling?

How often do you go travelling?

Where do you usually travel?

How do you feel when you are travelling?

## Part 2 & 3

### Important items at home

Describe a useful object in your home that you cannot live without.

What it is?

How long you have had it?

What you can do with it?

How often you use it?

And explain why you cannot live without it.

What equipment do you find difficult to use?

What can you do with a laptop?

What are the benefits of using technology in the workplace?

Why do some people in the workplace dislike technology?

Why do people buy a lot of household appliances?

What do people often do with electronic devices?

### Disliked work

Describe a job that you would not like to do in the future.

What it is?

How you know about the job?

Whether the job is difficult or not?

And explain why you would not like to do it?

What kind of jobs do Chinese young people like to do?

Do Chinese young people prefer to choose an interesting job or a job with a high salary?

Do you think it is easier to get a job now than in the past?

Is it important to be successful in a job?

Do you think AI will take over many jobs?

Can AI improve people's lives? If so, how?

### Unusual holidays

Describe an unusual holiday you had.

When and where you went?

Who you went with?

What you did there?

And explain why it was unusual.

Do you think people in your country have long enough holidays?

Which holidays are popular in your country?

What are the differences between old and young people when spending their holidays?

### Long term goals

Describe a long-term goal you would like to achieve.

How long you have had this goal?

What the goal is?

How you will achieve it?

And explain why you set this goal?

What goals should a society have?

Do people need to have goals?

What goals do people your age have?

Is it necessary to give advice to children?

### Map

Describe a occasion when you used a map.

When you used the map?

Where you were?

Why you used a map?

And explain how you felt about the experience.

What do people usually do when they get lost?

What are the differences between paper and digital maps?

What do you think of in-car GPS navigation systems?

What do people often do with a map?

Why do most people prefer to use a paper map?

How does learning to read a map help you learn more about your country?

### Improved public facilities

Describe a public facilities that has been renovated and improved.

What the facility is?

When it was renovated and improved?

What has been renovated and improved?

And explain how you feel about it.

What are the benefits of public facilities?

Why are some public transport methods popular, such as the subway?

Why are some public transport methods unpopular?

What kind of transport do young people and old people prefer?

What do you think are the differences between Chinese square dancing now and in the future?

### Things of interest

Describe something in your country that you are interested in.

What it is?

Why you are interested in it?

What are you interested in?

Why you are interested in it?

How do you do?

### Awesome teammates

Describe a great team member you worked with.

Who this person is?

When you worked together?

What team project you worked on?

And explain why you think he/she was a great team member.

What qualities should a leader have?

What should people do without a good team leader?

Why do some people dislike teamwork?

Do you think young people are good team players?

### Fun conversations with the elderly

Describe an interesting conversation you had with a very old person.

Who this person is?

Where you had the conversation?

What you talked about?

And explain how you felt about the experience.

How do people have a conversation with an elderly person?

What do people should talked about?

What do people should pay attention to when people have a conversation with an elderly person?

### Helping others

Describe a time when you helped someone.

Who you helped?

Why you helped him/her?

How you helped him/her?

And explain how you felt about the experience.

Should people be very kind when they help others?

Should children be taught to be kind to others?

How do you compare kindness with other qualities?

### The guest is like a guest

Describe a person who is good at making people feel welcome in his/her home.

Who this person is?

How you knew him/her?

How he/she makes you feel welcome?

Do people in your country often invite others to their homes? Why?

What kind of people do you think are more likely to invite others to their homes?

Who are more likely to invite others to their homes, people in the countryside or people in the city?

Are tourist attractions in the countryside more welcome than those in the cities?

What facilities are there in the tourist attractions in your country?

### During busy periods

Describe a period you were busy.

When it was?

What you did during the period?

What made you busy?

And explain how you felt about the experience.

Why do people often feel tired in this day and age?

Do you think people will feel even more tired in the future?

Is time management important?

How does technology help with time management?

Does technology distract people?

### A talkative person

Describe a person you know who likes to talk a lot.

Who this person is?

How you knew this person?

What he/she usually talks about?

And explain how you felt about him/her.

How should parents encourage their children?

How should people encourage children to express themselves when being asked questions that they are afraid to answer?

### Proficient in welcoming guests

Describe a person who you think is good at welcoming visitors.

Who he/she is?

When and how you met him/her?

How he/she welcomes visitors?

And explain why you think he/she is good at welcoming visitors.

What do you think of using food to treat visitors?

What do you say to welcome visitor?

What do you do to welcome visitor?

### I want to go to a place to relax

Describe a place you would like to go to relax.

Where it is?

When you would like to go there?

What you would do there?

And explain why you would like to go to this place to relax.

Do people have enough places to relax in your country?

What do people usually do when they are relaxed?

Is physical activity good for relaxation?

Do you think that spending time in front of a screen helps people relax?

Do people have to spend a lot of money to relax?

### Skills learned in childhood

Describe a skill that you learned in your childhood.

What the skill is?

When and how you learned it?

Who you learned it from?

And explain why you learned it.

Where do children learn skills in your country?

What are the differences between learning skills on your own and from others?

### Primary school activities

Describe an activity that you remember enjoying most in your primary school.

What the activity was?

How often you did the activity?

Who you did it with?

And explain why you enjoyed doing it.

What activities do children often do in your country?

What do parents in your country let their children do?

What are the differences between activities at home and at school?

Why do some people like to participate in activities?

What activities do people do in their free time?

### Things that help with learning and work

Describe something you do regularly to help you work or study.

What it is?

How you do it?

When you do iy?

And explain how you feel about the method.

Do you think everyone's routine is different?

What do you do regularly to help you work or study?

Why do you do that?

### Noise

Describe an occasion when there was a lot of noise.

Where you heard the noise?

Who made the noise?

How you reacted to the noise?

And explain how you felt about the noise.

What kinds of places should be noise-free?

Can people bring children to these noise-free places?

Why can't people make noise in a church?

What public morals should people follow in your country?

### Uniforms

Describe a uniform you wear (e.g. at school, at work)

Where you wear the uniform?

How long you need to wear it?

What it looks like?

Who bought it for you?

And explain how you feel about it.

Why should students wear uniforms?

Why should people at work wear uniforms?

What are the advantages and disadvantages of wearing a uniform?;